To set a custom port for the H2 database, you can configure both the web server and the TCP server ports. Here’s how to do it:

1. Setting the Web Console Port
The H2 Console uses a web server that listens on a specific port. By default, this is set to 8082. To change it, you need to modify the configuration file or start the server with a specific parameter.

Configuration File Method
Locate the .h2.server.properties file in your user home directory. This file is created automatically when you first start the H2 Console.

Open the file and add or modify the following line

webPort=YOUR_CUSTOM_PORT
Replace YOUR_CUSTOM_PORT with the desired port number.

Command Line Method
You can also specify the port directly when starting the H2 server from the command line:
java -cp h2*.jar org.h2.tools.Server -web -webPort YOUR_CUSTOM_PORT

2. Setting the TCP Server Port
The TCP server allows remote connections to the H2 database. By default, it listens on port 9092. To change this, you can use the -tcpPort option.

Command Line Method
To start the TCP server on a custom port, use the following command:
java -cp h2*.jar org.h2.tools.Server -tcp -tcpPort YOUR_CUSTOM_PORT

3. Example Command to Start Both Servers
If you want to start both the web server and the TCP server with custom ports, you can combine the commands like this:
java -cp h2*.jar org.h2.tools.Server -web -webPort 8085 -tcp -tcpPort 9095

In this example:

The web console will run on port 8085.
The TCP server will run on port 9095.

4. Verifying the Configuration
After starting the server with the custom ports:

Access the H2 Console by navigating to http://localhost:YOUR_CUSTOM_WEB_PORT in your web browser.
Ensure that your application or client connects to the H2 database using the new TCP port.
5. Important Notes
Firewall Settings: Ensure that your firewall allows traffic on the custom ports you have set.
Port Availability: Make sure the ports you choose are not already in use by other applications to avoid conflicts.
Persistence: If you want these settings to persist across server restarts, consider adding them to the configuration file as mentioned above.
By following these steps, you can successfully set a custom port for the H2 database.